so you're over 40 you're midlife and you
haven't built a personal brand and
you're wondering if you've missed the
boat as someone who's in midlife this is
the absolute best time in our history to
start a personal brand it's easier less
Technical and people your age are in
high demand marketing firms Brands PR
agencies they are all desperate to work
with people who are over 40 50 60 even
70 and that's because of the unique
experience relatability trustworthiness
authenticity just the realness that
someone your age brings to the market it
just comes with being a little older I
mean there's an undeniable relatability
and confidence that comes with having
the type of knowledge and experience
that you have because you are a mider
you attract people who are also in their
midlife which means you're attracting
people who've got the money and Brands
love that and whether that benefits your
own personal brand or a bigger brand at
the end of the day it's more money but
what does it take to start a personal
brand should you seriously consider it
do you need to quit your job or is this
something you can do on the side how
much work is really involved do you have
to be a master of social media great on
camera really goodlooking have some
really unique talent the answerers all
those questions and more today I'm going
to share with you in this episode I've
helped hundreds of thousands of people
to build their own personal Brands and I
have to tell you I am so excited I am so
excited for those of you who are in
midlife and considering for the first
time doing this maybe this is like the
2.0 version of your life maybe your kids
are grown or maybe you're anticipating
that you're going to go through a season
where you need something of your own
whatever the reason is I can't encourage
you strongly enough to take action and
just get started and that's why I've
made this episode for you today let's
get into
it if you just think about human nature
if you just think about the type of
people and influencers that you're
watching on social media that you find
um annoying and completely inauthentic I
think it's no wonder that not just the
market but branding agencies and
marketing agencies and the world in
general is kind of sick of these you
know no offense younger influencers who
pretend as though they know it all these
boss babes these Billionaire Boys clubs
these they're really kids who are
putting together on social media this
life that just doesn't look real and we
we're not falling for it anymore it's
like so much based on Aesthetics and you
hear the advice you hear the wisdom that
they have to share and somebody like us
is thinking yeah I I don't buy it like
kid you haven't been around long enough
to be telling me how to live my life
there's just a lack of credibility when
it comes with certain people of a
certain age giving advice and and maybe
that has to do with my own age I I tend
to look at the individual and and I look
at how much experience do they have how
much have they done do they have the
chops do they have the receipts because
if they don't no matter how fancy and
well produced their social media is I'm
not buying it we want real we want
authentic we want relatable we want
people that we can trust and that's what
we're looking for online today so let's
start with you should you consider
building a personal brand because I'm
going to shoot completely straight with
you like this is not one of those like
everyone needs to do this not
necessarily I don't think everyone needs
to do this but I think that you're
probably watching and listening to this
episode because there's something inside
of you saying I I feel like I should be
doing this allow me to help you figure
that out the first thing you have to ask
yourself is are you willing to put in
the time and this is something you can
definitely do part-time you don't have
to quit your job you don't have to be an
empty nester you don't have to devote
all of your efforts to building an
online social media presence you don't
but the more time you put into it the
quicker your personal brand is going to
have notoriety things you need to
consider though aside from like okay do
I have enough time like a couple of
hours a week to start doing this aside
from the time what's in it for you like
why should you do this I think it's
really important for Gen xers because
number one the economy like it's so
unpredictable jobs are so
unpredictable we just don't know what's
going to happen with AI and automation
we're seeing more and more and more
people lose their jobs or their jobs are
changing and they're they're making less
money pensions aren't what they used to
be like when's the last time you he
someone talking about their 401k or
their retirement plan Social Security is
certainly uncertain I mean there's just
so many reasons financially that it just
makes sense to have a plan b a a what if
and and so like those are kind of the um
practical reasons why like financially
it just makes no sense today to rely on
one stream of income I don't care how
solid you think your job is I don't care
how great you think um you're saving are
or your Investments or your spouse's
income or what whatever it is if it's
one stream of income that's hella risky
even if you already have a business and
you don't have a well-developed personal
brand that's risky a personal brand is
something no one can ever take away from
you hey before we go much further I have
a special favor to ask of you it's not
going to cost you a dime and I think
it's probably going to bring you a lot
of good karma pretty sure of that it's
so easy if made it to this point in the
video can I just encourage you to
subscribe it's completely free you can
unsubscribe if a video shows up and
you're like okay I don't like her
anymore it's easy it's free and if you
hit that notification Bell you get like
bonus points somewhere I'm sure they're
redeemable probably your favorite
restaurant so hit that subscribe button
it means the world to me let me know
that it was me begging for the Subscribe
that got you to subscribe today drop
that in the comments below um because
you know you'll get priority treatment
in the comments that's for
sure all that begging for subscribes
really got me thirsty let's get back to
the content the other reasons why you
might want to
consider starting today building your
personal brand is because it's it's you
it's your legacy it's your
reputation it is what people will
remember you for and buy your personal
brand is the ultimate currency you
should start a personal brand because
there are things that have happened in
your life there are things you've
experience there's things that you have
figured out that just make no sense why
you had to go through that or why this
weird connection of all the different
things you've done in your life how it's
like all come together and now you have
this like really unique knowledge and
perspective and you're just going to die
with that like you're not going to share
that with the freaking world when
there's things like this you know
podcasts and YouTube and and social
media where you can help hundreds if not
hundreds of thousands of
strangers by learning from your missteps
you know like teaching from a place
where you're like I I've been through it
and let me save you some time let me
save you some headache let me save you
some heartache you know and I think
about all of the crazy weird things I've
done in my life and I'm sure this is
probably true for you too you start to
realize that there are some through
lines even you know when I think about
like me selling cars back in college
when I think about you know working as a
paralal working as a personal trainer
creating programs for other fitness
trainers then creating programs to help
people who want to start a business know
like where to start and what to do and
then how to grow a digital brand like
the through line in all of this was I
was solving a problem for me and I would
often figure out a way that I could make
it less complicated and easier and then
once I did that I'm like I'm I'm sure
there's other people who want this to be
less complicated for them and and so
there's a through line in everything and
all the experience that you've had
there's a through line there and I think
it's just so profoundly fulfilling to
use that and in a greater way to have an
impact on the world now if that does not
resonate with you if having an impact on
the world if like helping other people
serving other people you know just
having like let's just talk about the
selfish reasons like just having someone
come up to you and go like you changed
my life you don't know how much you help
me or you saved me thousands of dollars
or you saved me a hard or you gave me
hope like having somebody just even one
person say that to you I can't even tell
you how
overwhelmingly grateful and humbling it
is to have someone say that to you and
imagine you know a dozen people saying
that to you or or thousands or even
hundreds of thousands of people you know
like for ego selfish reasons like that's
a really profound inspiration when it
comes to like creating a personal brand
because you can have that kind of impact
on the world you know that's kind of
like like I said that's the the personal
stuff knowing you can leave your mark on
the world but then there's the Practical
reasons like the financial reasons the
the lack of security and and with
personal Brands being your currency so
if neither of those two
things excite you or feel like a
motivating reason why you should start a
personal brand and you don't have the
time well I just want to say thank you
for spending this much time with me
watching this video and you know if
you're just here for entertainment
purposes awesome but the rest of this
video just isn't for you and and and
building a personal brand really isn't
for you and that's okay not everyone has
to do that but the ironic thing that you
need to know is you already have a
personal brand your personal brand is
it's exactly what friends use to
describe you to another friend uh who's
never met you it's what they say oh I
want you to meet my friend Donna she's
incredibly fit she's really creative
she's and they start to tell like your
your story it's it's it's your story
it's your reputation it's how people
know you and describe you that's your
personal brand but what I'm sharing with
you today is what you need to do to to
turn into a business basically so where
do you start where do you start if you
want to build a personal brand well the
very first thing you need to do is
figure out what that one thing is that
you want to start with because you have
to be known for something first in order
to make an impact now I know and you
know that at your age at our age we've
been through a bajillion things I've had
so many experiences I could literally
pick you know any number of I could pick
like 10 different things and go all
right I want my personal brand to be
about this that's the other really cool
thing about someone your age is is
you've got the chops you've got the
receipts you've been through it and you
survived you didn't just survive now
you've thrived you figured it out and
that'll never freaking happen to you
again but now the thing is you have to
pick one and that's going to be the
hardest assignment for anyone who wants
to build a personal brand I know it was
for me super exciting at the end of this
video I did a complete Instagram
makeover so you would know those of you
who are starting to build your personal
brand today I'm going to show you like
in 10 minutes how you can make over your
Instagram or your YouTube or your Tik
Tok or or even your Facebook profile so
that it begins to promote your brand so
stay tuned for that as I mentioned in
college I started a business called the
all Michigan auto swap meet it's how I
paid my way through college basically
buying and selling cars and then I
started a weekend event where I would
invite people to sell their cars on this
car lot uh people who were private
Sellers and then I would invite private
buyers to come in and buy their cars
from them and I had some moderate
success with that you know it was
something that made me very proud to be
that young and to have started you know
a business while I was at Michigan State
but I was doing a lot of other things
too I was you know I was waitressing I
was working as a paralal I Was preparing
myself to go to law school at Michigan
State I studied Justice morality and
constitutional democracy my reputation
with in my family and friends was that I
was a future attorney like that's who I
told the world I was and so there's a
piece of personal brand that's who have
you been telling people you are so I was
doing that I was also always telling
people that I was an entrepreneur from
like age5 I identified as that as well I
at about age probably 18 I started
teaching Fitness classes on the side too
so I was also doing that in college as
well um I I just did it for fun I I was
wasn't that great at it but I enjoyed it
and it really made me feel made me feel
like this High every time I did a
workout and I loved music I was uh
someone who enjoyed debate obviously and
I liked you know writing these are all
the things I enjoyed doing and I wanted
to teach other women how to start a
personal training business I wanted to
teach other women how to start something
on their side on the side so I want to
teach women how to start a business I
wanted to do all these things and I want
to continue teaching Fitness classes at
one point I even started a business
where I was franchising inhome personal
training and teaching personal trainers
how to do Inon personal training so I'm
doing all of these things can you
picture all of these balls up in the air
and all at once PS I'm doing all of
these things all at once and wondering
why I'm I'm not known for any one thing
wondering why it was so difficult for me
to introduce myself to other people and
tell them what I did because I was doing
everything I was wondering why I was
working so freaking hard I was so
creative but I just was never like
cracking the code like why couldn't I
get ahead financially and it wasn't
until I took the advice of a mentor who
said you have to focus on one thing I
know you can do all of these things but
in order to build a personal brand you
have to become known it's the art of
Being known and I'm like but I'm afraid
to pick one of these things because I
don't know which one is the right
one does that resonate with you like do
you feel like you have so much personal
experience and so many things that you
truly have some passion for that it's
difficult to know like what is the thing
and it's almost scary to pick the wrong
thing if that's you I can so relate and
I and I want to tell
you you might pick the wrong thing but
you have to pick and it doesn't out
always have to be the thing you're the
most passionate about I had passion for
Fitness I still do but it wasn't the
thing that I was like uber Uber
passionate about the thing that I'm Uber
Uber passionate about is just teaching
like I love like doing this for you I
love teaching I love teaching people how
to start a side hustle I love teaching
people how to break down any complicated
system and make it basic I I just love
teaching but Fitness was something that
I I saw an opportunity I saw an
opportunity to monetize it because I saw
that was a really big need and there was
a big market for it and I really didn't
know quite how to have get that same
opportunity in other areas that felt
like I was in over my head like to teach
marketing at that point felt like I was
in over my head I just didn't see the
same opportunity so I decided to double
down and just brand myself as a fitness
expert it's crazy so I decided to not go
to law school crazy which is so weird
because now that I'm Breaking Free from
this identity that I had given myself
like who am I now I'm an aerobic
instructor like that doesn't sound that
impressive it would be much more
exciting for my parents to be able to
say oh our daughter's a lawyer so it was
it was hard to break that news to my
family it was hard to make that decision
I felt like I would be less valuable as
a person if I was going into fitness at
that time no one in no one I knew in
Fitness was making any money it was
something they did because I loved but I
wanted to take what I knew about
entrepreneurship personal branding and
marketing and apply it to something that
I had some passion for and saw an
opportunity and so I decided to double
down and go all in on my brand when it
came to Fitness I started declaring what
my brand was so that's your first step
is you've got to pick you've got to pick
the thing you want to be known for and
the way to do that is to make a list of
all like the you know five or 10 things
you're like I it could be this it could
be that it could be this like come come
up with all the reasons or all the
different ideas and they usually will
relate to a problem that you've solved a
past experience that you've been through
or something that's like this is my jam
I know this better than anybody this is
the thing that people come to me for
this is the thing I'm good at this is
the thing I'm like like the thing that I
like put all of those on the page and
once you take a look at that list then I
want you to circle the one or two where
you're like there's an opportunity like
there's a market that wants this there's
a need there's there's a place for this
because someone isn't doing it quite the
way I would do it now trust me anything
you're going to tell me like you're that
you might say is the market saturated in
that I'm going to tell you the market is
never saturated in exactly the way
you're going to do it was the market was
the fitness Market completely saturated
when I entered it of course and it's
still saturated and people are still
rising to the top it's about knowing
what's unique about the way that you do
something so if you have a unique Twist
on something there's your opportunity
and I knew that I had a unique Twist on
the way I put together the music the
sound effects and the choreography and
the way that I packaged it for other
Fitness professionals the way it made
people feel I knew that I had something
really unique that solved a problem for
other Fitness instructors who didn't
know how to create classes like that and
that was the first thing that I started
branding myself as is this Fitness
expert who was designing ography for
other Fitness instructors so you've got
to go all in and you might not pick the
right one I had no idea if I'd pick the
right
one you will get a sense that you're
making some traction but let me just be
very honest with you once you pick like
one thing you're going to focus on and
you've been talking about 10 things in
social media and with your friends and
and in life well those other nine things
you the people who are interested in
those other nine things they kind of
like oh the camera followed me that was
fun it's so cool the iPhone is so cool
I'm like using my iPhone right now like
watch what oh hi
honey you want to come dance with
[Music]
me this camera is so cool anyways what
was I saying adhc so once you focus on
one thing you're gonna lose some
people's interest and that's okay it's
in fact you have to do that another
great example of this my son Brock when
he decided to go all in on his Niche
which is helping people to grow on
Instagram until that time he posted like
any random person does about their
interest about his girlfriend about
football about Pokemon cards like
whatever he posted about everything and
he had you know a decent sized following
I think he had like 10,000 followers or
something and when you started just
posting about Instagram tips to grow
your Instagram business his engagement
and followers like tanked because you
know a large majority of those people
weren't following him just for Instagram
tips but what that allowed him to do was
to stand out and today he has almost
700,000 followers he gained 400,000
followers in a year but you've got to
Niche down you've got to pick your thing
you have to pick your thing if you have
the courage to just pick your Niche
that's step one now you've got to like
really tell the world this is my Niche
and you have to be okay with doing this
for for like a year unless you just feel
like immediately it's the wrong thing
I'm not passionate I already hate it all
right then fine switch to one of the
other ones and guess what no one's going
to
die but you're not going to get anywhere
you're not going to build your brand
people aren't going to come looking for
you people aren't even going to talk
about you if you don't decide on one
thing that you stand for that's the
hardest thing for people to wrap their
heads around it's the hardest thing for
people to do and you need tenacity and
you need determination and you need
discipline to be able to stick to that I
didn't just want to post about Fitness I
wanted to post about a million other
things but I decided to go all in for at
least a year now how long is it going to
take for you how long does it take to
start your personal brand today that's
it you can just decide right now what
your Niche is and then it's a matter of
basically telling people this is my
thing you you have to be the pr agent
you have to be the one who tells people
what your reputation is it's not just
letting people figure it out like you
actually have to tell people what it is
you stand for what it is you help people
with and what your brand you've got to
Define your brand you know I hear a lot
of people say it's it's how other people
describe you a little bit but it's also
how you teach them to describe you your
next step is to figure out who
specifically it is you help if you tell
me I help all women fill in the blank
that's not Niche down enough you really
need to specifically know who it is you
help and how it is is you want to help
them and a lot of this if I'm being
honest you're just going to figure out
as you go so again don't worry about
getting that wrong if you look at my
Instagram bio I change it all the time
because I'm always refining my personal
brand once I became known for fitness
and for those of you who know my story I
eventually my husband and I we we we
built this company that was a
certification company we had thousands
hundreds of thousands of instructors who
are teaching our programs all over the
globe eventually we then signed a an
infomercial deal we did years of Fitness
infomercials we sold our companies we
sold all the fitness companies we
stopped doing Fitness generally speaking
and then I stopped branding myself as a
fitness expert I started branding myself
as a lifestyle and business Expert I
started doing a business podcast I
started talking about lifestyle and and
business tips on my uh shellene show and
and on build your tribe I started
creating Academy and courses and
programs and and speaking on stages not
as a fitness professional I started
declining all my fitness invitations and
I just took engagements where they were
paying me to be a paid expert on
business and marketing I I had to tell
the world what my new brand was I you
can say reinvented myself but I didn't I
just evolved that was the next Evolution
and if that's something you're
struggling with is letting go of a past
identity I want to recommend you listen
to the episode that I did about what it
means to to let go to move on to evolve
to change to reinvent yourself and how
to do that and how to know if in fact
it's time for you to do that because
that can be pretty scary but it's what I
did and when I did that I cleaned up all
my social there was no more Fitness
posts it was all lifestyle and marketing
and what happened when I did that I lost
a lot of followers who were following me
just for fitness and I gained people who
were just looking how to start a
business who people who were like easily
distracted like myself so what I'm
trying to explain to you is it's a
process and you're not going to get that
instant gratification if you're afraid
that you're going to get fewer likes or
if you think that because you get fewer
likes or less engagement on your social
that means you've picked the wrong Niche
it's not true you have to double down so
that those people can find you and the
next step is we've got to clean up your
act so it's really easy when people look
for two seconds at your social media
what it is you do so one once you've
determined your Niche I want to show you
really easily how we can give you an
Instagram or you can do this as a a a
Facebook makeover or a YouTube makeover
it's a matter of helping people identify
you and your brand so I'm going to take
you through in this example one that we
can do on Instagram but you can do these
exact same things and you should be
doing these exact same things to clean
up your image and your reputation on
whatever social media platform you use
now I do want to say this when it comes
to building a a personal brand when
you're in midlife I think right now the
play is long form
video the play here is how do I build
trust how do I build authenticity and
you know how you don't do that you don't
build trust and authenticity by lip
syncing to a song and pointing to words
on a video like they're on reals or you
know doing a Tik Tock dance like that's
that's just that might get your views
and might be working for some 20-y olds
but it's not what we're looking for we
want a conversation we want to hear
about your experiences your stories we
want to hear about your past we want to
hear about the thing like you're a
queenager like you have so much
knowledge you run circles around these
young Whooper Snappers that they just
they don't have the experience to be
able to have the credibility and with
age and wisdom comes confidence where
it's like it's so nice to say really
well I'm older than you like that's the
ultimate Trump I love having that in my
back pocket it just gives me a certain
sense of confidence so long form video
is not just YouTube right but you can
put long form video now on Tik Tok and
also on Instagram it's it's going live
it's and the reason why I really like
this for those of you who are building a
a brand in midlife is because it's real
like these really short videos where
they're jump cuts and they're overly
produced and there's flying emojis and
cap
and you know scenes change and special
effects I just I don't know about you
but you're going to attract people like
you and I don't relate to that do you I
relate to a real conversation I relate
to an authentic person who's talking to
me without reading a script without
trying to come across a certain way like
just be real you don't have to be like
you know camera ready at all all times
you can have no makeup you can have GL
like what you look like does not matter
right now social media is completely
change we want authenticity over
Aesthetics all day long and when I say
we I mean people who are your age and
we're the ones who have the money we're
the ones who have the buying power we're
and we're the ones who have the
influence over each other you've got a
real opportunity to crush it with your
personal brand because a lot of people
our age are afraid to do this I don't
get it but they're afraid to be judged
they're afraid of what people will say
they're afraid they're not going to be
good enough they're going to my wrinkles
will people might call me old so what
what a compliment go ahead call me old I
don't care I'm older than you maybe I'm
not older than you but I I don't care if
that's such a compliment to be able to
make it to this point and still be
relevant and still have something to
share what a privilege so that's not a
put down I don't care I watched a Tik
Tok the other day and it was a girl
doing like a um like a skincare routine
and I was reading the I was reading how
many of the people in the comments said
because she said her age and so many
people in the comments were like oh my
gosh you look so young oh I'm shocked by
that you look so young are you ready for
this she's
29 I'm
like oh you silly little fetuses you
just that's so cute of you like who
cares what anyone thinks literally but I
think the way to go is long form video
it's you don't have to just open up your
camera and talk pick the platform that
you spend the most time on already so
maybe you're here watching this on
YouTube maybe you're listening on a
podcast those of you who are interested
in podcasting and just doing audio
that's a possibility but I'm going to
tell you that the way to crush it on
podcasts today is with YouTube video
like I I've gained over 70,000 new
followers just this month on YouTube
alone and why why is that I'll tell you
why because you connect with me when you
see me on
video it in a more profound deeper
faster way you have to listen to so many
audio episodes in order to have that
same kind of connection that somebody
feels when they watch on video and some
of you have been listening to my show on
audio only for you know may maybe eight
or 10 years and I'd love to just invite
you to jump over to you YouTube and and
see how it feels maybe different if you
watch it on on video and I know you guys
have already told me I don't want to
watch on video I I I like driving in my
car and uh just listening well you can
do that on YouTube as well you don't
have to be watching me like the whole
time but every once I just like glancing
in saying oh what is she wearing where
are they staying how is her hair today
all those things you look at facial
expressions and you that's how we decide
if we can trust someone and when I said
that your personal brand is your
currency it's your currency if you have
trust and Trust comes from a
believability a
relatability a reliability like you just
keep showing up and that gives you a
certain degree of of trust and then
there are people who are like you know
they've been with me for a long time
they're part of my patreon there's so
many ways that you can serve and build
your community but let's go back to what
we're going to do to make over your
Instagram bio I'm fortunate enough to
work with some incredible people who are
specifically trained like their sole job
is to work with people who are midlife
and help them build huge Brands like
what does it take to be over 45 to be 55
65 even 70 years old and to build a huge
personal brand I would love to bring
some of those experts here to the show
and and let you ask the questions of
them if that's something you would be
interested in like like hearing like how
did Emily D Baker do it how does
somebody like an AM Porterfield or a
Marie foro or you know that person who
you're thinking you'd like to be like an
Andrew huberman what does it take to
build a personal brand quickly if that's
something you would like to hear more
from the experts who've helped people to
do that drop a comment below and and and
just say yes I'd love to hear from the
expert and if you do put yes I'd love to
hear from the expert make sure you
subscribe to this channel otherwise
you'll miss it entirely because if
enough people say yes I want to hear
from the experts then I willing bring
you the best people to the show we'll
interview them and you'll miss it unless
you're subscribed and you turn on that
little notification Bell if you have
those two things in place you're going
to catch that video now it's time to
really Define your brand in social media
all right let's start with Lisa Lisa
roach first thing I see is that I I
don't even know who this is and so many
of you what you're going to need to do
is find a head shot now you can just
take this right now with your iPhone
because you don't even have to worry
about the quality of it you can put a
filter on it if you want but we need a
clean head shot just your mug because I
can't relate to Lisa when I can't even
see it looks like maybe she has a mask
on which means she probably hasn't even
updated this photo since the pandemic
she says that she's a mommy to an angel
baby suie which explains why she's used
a social media handle Lisa her name is
Lisa and you want to start by
remembering the thing that's never going
to change is your name so even if you
have a really common name like your name
is let's say Lisa Smith you could be the
official Lisa Smith or Lisa Smith is
here or Lisa Smith like something that
includes your name and you don't have to
use your whole name but you should
definitely use part of your name I can't
tell you how many times I've met
individuals at events and they'll walk
up to me and they're like we talk all
the time shelene I am fitmom 47 puppy
lover like I I'll never remember that
and I have no connection with you we are
connected by our names it says something
about us your person brand starts with
your personal name so change your handle
on all social media profiles try to pick
something that's available across all of
them and you might have to be creative
if you have a a very you know common
name but you'll find it I promise you so
the first thing we have to do with Lisa
is we've got to zoom in on her face we
need to see her face so I scrolled back
through her social media account and
found this image of Lisa I just cropped
it and then what I did is I put it into
canva in canva they've got which is a
free program you just put into canva and
you simply remove the background so that
gave her just the cropped shot of her
head then I placed another color behind
her and just uploaded that as her new
profile picture onto Instagram we picked
this bright chartreuse yellow because
that's like one of her favorite colors
and it's really a great color that just
pops off the page like you're you're
going to see that color and instantly
identify oh that's that's Lisa right and
now we're seeing her face now I can
connect with her her now there's
something about her eyes and like that
flower in her hair like you already know
some things about Lisa that we had no
idea of like maybe she posted another
photo of herself in the gym that like
post gym workout selfie because she
thought she looked like you know really
fit that day but we don't connect with
people because of their bodies we
connect with people because of their
eyes because of their face because of
that relatability that we're looking for
and we see in people's faces the next
thing we did was changed her username
again your username is the name you're
going by on that social media platform
so I'm shellene Johnson across all the
platforms here on YouTube I'm it's
youtube.com shalen Johnson it's a
shellene Johnson it's the shellene show
it's shellene Johnson on uh Twitter it's
shellene Johnson on Instagram it's try
to pick a name and then use that
username across all social media
platforms so that it's it's more
consistent when it comes to Instagram
the name area the name field on
Instagram only only this is not true on
Tik Tok or on YouTube but on Instagram
the name field there's no reason for you
to put your name there again okay so
it's in this field that I want you to
tell people your brand like what is it
that you do so at the time of my
recording Lisa's brand is she's someone
who helps people with makeup
specifically women who are super busy
and have like five minutes or less to
put on their makeup so we're going to
use that field because it is search
engine optimize on Instagram and we're
going to place whatever your brand is
whatever it is somebody might be
searching for that you help them with
put it in that field now below that
you'll see that Lisa has written a bunch
of things that a lot of you probably
have in your social media the things
that are like clever or funny or you
think are relatable but they're just
they're not helping anyone you know so
for example she says I'm a mommy to an
angel baby named Susie great great for
her but like you know no offense who
cares like that's not helping anybody
she says I'm unable to quit because I am
currently too legit okay that's funny
now I know she likes MC Hammer now I
probably also know how old she is but
it's also just not helpful so you want
to use this whole Space to help people
understand more about your brand because
we've got two seconds to decide if we
want to follow you or not and the fact
that you like like MC Hammer like that
was too hard for me to figure out and
that doesn't help me I just need to know
how do you help me how does your brand
help me so we're going to change your
Instagram bio to tell people what type
of content you post so this isn't a
resume May and you don't even have to
say I help people to do blah blah blah
just tell people what kind of content
they can expect you if they follow you
what kind of content will they see what
is the promise what is it you're going
to be helping them with what what
problem is it that you solve what type
of Niche are you specifically uh
obsessed with at the moment like this
all relates to your personal brand now
that we've changed her bio and her
picture it's much more identifiable
we've also changed your name now if
somebody were to see a great post from
Lisa and click on her Instagram account
this is what they see they've got like
two seconds to look at the content and
go like what it's huh what did she post
about like what is her brand because the
content's all over the place don't make
the mistake of trying to post content
that's trendy or popular or it's what
everybody or it's just going to get you
likes post content that's truly valuable
to the person who it is you're trying to
help like pick a niche and stick with it
this is your brand this is how you help
people and her content no offense is was
all over the place so what we did was
changed uper content so as you can see
here the content delivers on the promise
of the bio the bio says that she posts
five minute makeup tutorials for busy
moms who got no time for makeup and now
if I glance at the content on her page
it's like oh that matches up consistency
is part of your personal brand and it
starts there like you've got to start by
building a brand that's really
identifiable that's easy for people to
understand so that when the person who's
looking for you finds you they're like
this is what I was looking for now this
is a great bio makeover if that's
something you're struggling with I've
got a great tool for you there we also
help people grow their Instagram it's
called insta clubhub and it it's a
membership it's amazing whether you're
trying to figure out like what to post
um how to use like some of the new
features on Instagram should you use
hashtags should you not look and how to
spend less time on the app to attract
people to your personal brand to your
business we would love to help you I am
going to give you a link right now
that's going to give you 14 days access
to this incredible opportunity for just
$7 this is something you're trying to
figure out let me give you the shortcut
Instagram is a beast we study this
full-time I promise you'll be blown away
so give it a try $7 14 days the link is
below in our description hey I know it's
a lot and I want to thank you for
staying with me to this point I also
want you to know it's possible and I
want to be very realistic and tell you
that your brain is not going to pop off
in five months time unless you're so
good at creating the kind of content
that just goes viral because it's so
helpful and people who are your avatar
are sending it to other people who are
your avatar I mean it's possible I've
seen it happen I can give you some great
examples how about Dr Mary CLA Haver who
opened up her Tik Tok and instead of
like doing all the fancy stuff that
everybody else was doing in the dance on
Tik Tok she just decided to talk about
the thing that she was most incredibly
passionate about and that is women's
hormone health and in doing so she grew
overnight today she has over two million
followers on Tik Tok and has been able
to monetize her personal brand to far
exceed her earnings as a medical doctor
that's possible for you too and guess
what she's a menopausal woman so you can
do this in midlife but you got to be
real you got to be authentic you can't
expect to pop off overnight you just
can't you have to do this because it's
the mark that you want to leave don't do
this if if you're doing this because you
want to be famous it just won't happen
like the universe God doesn't work that
way like you have to really do this
because you want to serve others and you
love it and not expect that it's going
to pop off overnight and not expect that
you're going to have millions of
followers by the end of the year you got
to stick to this and you got to you've
got to continually get better at
creating cont content yes it's about
creating content because you can create
a personal brand but how is anyone going
to find out about it unless you're
either running ads or posting to social
media pick one platform and dominate it
and by dominate I mean like you don't
have to be everywhere you don't have to
be on all the platforms but pick one and
know it inside and out if that one
happens to be Instagram I'm your girl
check us out at insta clubhub.com that
is the Instagram growth membership that
my son and I uh operate together and
we'd love to help you like we're really
good at it too like really good at it
especially helping those of you who are
midlifers trying to build your own
personal brand and I am so excited to
hear about your journey so if you've
decided to do this you decided okay I'm
I'm go I'm gonna start putting the work
in today and start defining my personal
brand I'm going to decide what my thing
is I'm going to download that and I'm
going to do this I want you to declare
it below this episode declare it on
patreon wherever you're listening or if
you're watching this on YouTube declare
it below this video because when you do
that you put that message out to the
universe remember your personal brand
isn't just about creating it and then
they will come like you got to tell
people about it and the time to do that
is right now hey I love you I mean it
and I'll talk to you
[Music]
soon